[docs] Refactoring Using Gatsby Themes, how to install a theme directly (#19243)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/themes/using-a-gatsby-theme.md

For example, `gatsby-theme-blog` is the official Gatsby theme for creating a blog.

To install it, run in the root of your site:

```js
npm install --save gatsby-theme-blog
```

## Theme options

Depending on the theme, there may be theme options that can be configured via `gatsby-config.js`.

For example, `gatsby-theme-blog` can take in 4 potential options: `basePath`, `contentPath`, `assetPath`, and `mdx`. These options are also documented in the [theme's README](/packages/gatsby-theme-blog/) file.

```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-blog`,
      options: {
        /*
        - basePath defaults to `/`
        - contentPath defaults to `content/posts`
        - assetPath defaults to `content/assets`
        - mdx defaults to `true`
        */
        basePath: `/blog`,
        contentPath: `content/blogPosts`,
        assetPath: `content/blogAssets`,
        mdx: false,
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

To learn how to further customize a theme, check out the docs on [Gatsby theme shadowing](/docs/themes/shadowing/).

## Published Themes

> Public Gatsby themes are published on npm for anyone to use. You can also publish private themes for use by your organization. Examples of private npm package hosting include [npm registry](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-private-packages) and [GitHub Package Registry](https://help.github.com/en/github/managing-packages-with-github-package-registry/about-github-package-registry).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Public Gatsby themes are published on npm for anyone to use. You can also publish private themes for use by your organization. Examples of private theme package hosting include the [npm registry](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-private-packages) and [GitHub Package Registry](https://help.github.com/en/github/managing-packages-with-github-package-registry/about-github-package-registry).
```

title: Using a Gatsby Theme
---

> While you can [get started quickly with a Gatsby theme starter](/docs/themes/getting-started/), you can also install a Gatsby theme directly to an existing Gatsby site. Gatsby themes are plugins, so we [use them just like any other Gatsby plugin](/docs/using-a-plugin-in-your-site/).

Reviewer: Updating to follow the [Gatsby Style Guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/) for pronoun usage, and to omit the word "just".
```suggestion
While you can [get started quickly with a Gatsby theme starter](/docs/themes/getting-started/), you can also install a Gatsby theme directly to an existing Gatsby site. Gatsby themes are plugins, so you can [install and use them like any other Gatsby plugin](/docs/using-a-plugin-in-your-site/).
```

## Installing a Theme

> Like any Gatsby plugin, Gatsby themes are Node.js packages, so you can install them like other packages in node using npm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like any Gatsby plugin, Gatsby themes are Node.js packages, so you can install them like other published packages in Node using npm or [yarn, including local workspaces](#using-yarn-workspaces).
```

We don't typically mention Yarn but it is relevant to building themes, so it could be useful here.

For example, `gatsby-theme-blog` is the official Gatsby theme for creating a blog.

> To install it, in the root of you site, run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install it, run in the root of your site:
```

```js
npm install --save gatsby-theme-blog
```

> ## Theme Options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Theme options
```

Depending on the theme, there may be theme options that can be configured via `gatsby-config.js`.

> For example, `gatsby-theme-blog` can take in 4 potential options: `basePath`, `contentPath`, `assetPath`, and `mdx`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, `gatsby-theme-blog` can take in 4 potential options: `basePath`, `contentPath`, `assetPath`, and `mdx`. These options are also documented in the [theme's README](/packages/gatsby-theme-blog/) file.
```

> 

Reviewer: We should keep the title here on the code block, as it helps with code reading comprehension.

```js
// gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-blog`,
      options: {
        /*
        - basePath defaults to `/`
        - contentPath defaults to `content/posts`
        - assetPath defaults to `content/assets`
        - mdx defaults to `true`
        */
        basePath: `/blog`,
        contentPath: `content/blogPosts`,
        assetPath: `content/blogAssets`,
        mdx: false,
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

> To further customize a theme, see [Gatsby theme shadowing](/docs/themes/shadowing/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn how to further customize a theme, check out the docs on [Gatsby theme shadowing](/docs/themes/shadowing/).
```

## Published Themes

Public Gatsby themes are published on npm for anyone to use. You can also publish private themes for use by your organization. Examples of private npm package hosting include [npm registry](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-private-packages) and [GitHub Package Registry](https://help.github.com/en/github/managing-packages-with-github-package-registry/about-github-package-registry).

## Using Yarn Workspaces

> If you would like to work with unpublished themes, consider [setting up Yarn Workspaces for theme development](/blog/2019-05-22-setting-up-yarn-workspaces-for-theme-development/#reach-skip-nav).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to work with unpublished themes, consider [setting up Yarn Workspaces for theme development](/blog/2019-05-22-setting-up-yarn-workspaces-for-theme-development/) and [using Yarn](/docs/gatsby-cli/#how-to-change-your-default-package-manager-for-your-next-project) instead of npm.
```
